# [Lil RPG]

Author: [Tessa Mecklenburger] (click raw to view in paragraph form)
---
    For the final project I would like to make the begining of an RPG (think Pokemon or Final Fantasy). This would include a short cutscene at the begining, followed by an intro level. This would be moving around an overworld, interacting with objects/people, and a turn-based battle system. Damage would be handled as in D&D and include rolling "dice" to modify an attack stack for damage, and rolling to hit a creature based on an armor class. There would also have to be an inventory management system and a player menu. I most likely would not include save states. 

    I have plenty of background on these types of games! Thanks to my older siblings, I have been playing/watching games for most of my life, though they were mostly Nintendo. I know the ins and outs of a good RPG. I would love some experience writing a game engine, and getting a good feel for the work that goes into game developement. One of the reasons I am interested in pursuing CS is to get a job in the gaming or graphics industry, so I feel like this would be a good start.
    
    We had some experience earlier in the semester keeping track of rooms with Amazing Adventure, so I am confident I can translate that to c++. The hard part will be animating and keeping track of items and menus on the screen. To help with that I would use suBox2D, which is a CinderBlock that is a wrapper for Box2D physics. (https://github.com/sansumbrella/suBox2D) Some features are: Sandbox for easier world creation, pointers for managing physics bodies, and a ContactListener to simplify routing of physics event handling. These would be a great help for having the user walk around and interact with walls/objects. 
    
    I think the first week working on the project would go towards setting up a game engine. The gameplay classes would be for Items, Walls, Rooms(?), Enemies, and the Player. I would then focus on UI classes like textboxes, menus, and selection boxes. Once those can all be created and interacted with, I should be at week 2. This would be spent making the opening cutscene with the above classes, and desinging the overworld and generating it in the game window. Week 3 would be spent making it so the user can interact with objects in the world and making sure the battle system works.
    
    If I finished earlier, I would like to spend more time on the visual aspect of the game and try using images/textures on objects instead of just the cinder Draw functions. I would also implement more specific sound files, like footsteps and menu noises (clicks and hovers, etc). It would overall be time spent fine-tuning the created level. 
